.TH upkern 8 2012\-04\-04 "Linux System Administration"
.SH NAME
upkern \- Automated kernel updater for Gentoo.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B upkern
[-h] [--version] [--verbose] [--debug] [--quiet] [--color {none,light,dark,auto}] [--dry-run] [--configurator {config,menuconfig,nconfig,xconfig,gconfig,oldconfig,silentoldconfig,defconfig,${PLATFORM}_defconfig,allyesconfig,allmodconfig,allnoconfig,randconfig}] [--options KERNEL_OPTIONS] [--config CONFIG] [--rebuild-modules] [--time] [--yes] [--initrd] [name] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
Defaults to building the most up to date kernel currently on the system but can be used to build an alternative kernel by specifying a name.  That name is an ebuild name for a kernel that at the very least specifies a version (in which case the gentoo\-sources will be used).  Example names: 'sys\-kernel/gentoo\-sources\-2.6.32\-r6', 'gentoo\-sources\-2.6.23\-r6', '2.6.33\-r6', 'vanilla\-sources\-2.6.33'.  The name passed must be the name of a current ebuild in the portage tree.
.SH OPTIONS
  \-h, \-\-help            show this help message and exit
  \-\-version             show program's version number and exit
  \-\-verbose, \-v         Specifies verbose output from upkern.
  \-\-debug, \-D           Specifies debugging output from upkern. Implies
                        verbose output from upkern.
  \-\-quiet, \-q           Specifies quiet output from upkern. This is superceded
                        by verbose output.
  \-\-color {none,light,dark,auto}
                        Specifies whether output should use color and which
                        type of background to color for (light or dark). This
                        defaults to auto.
  \-\-dry\-run, \-d         Specifies that none of the actions that can modify the
                        filesystem should occur but they should be printed to
                        the screen. This way it can be seen what upkern will
                        do without actually doing it.
  \-\-configurator {config,menuconfig,nconfig,xconfig,gconfig,oldconfig,silentoldconfig,defconfig,${PLATFORM}_defconfig,allyesconfig,allmodconfig,allnoconfig,randconfig}, \-c {config,menuconfig,nconfig,xconfig,gconfig,oldconfig,silentoldconfig,defconfig,${PLATFORM}_defconfig,allyesconfig,allmodconfig,allnoconfig,randconfig}
                        Specifies which configurator should be used to
                        configure the kernel sources. The configurator can be
                        on of the following: config, menuconfig, nconfig,
                        xconfig, gconfig, oldconfig, silentoldconfig,
                        defconfig, ${PLATFORM}_defconfig, allyesconfig,
                        allmodconfig, allnoconfig, randconfig. All the
                        configurators are documented in the kernel source
                        files.
  \-\-options KERNEL_OPTIONS, \-o KERNEL_OPTIONS
                        This string is literally tacked onto the kernel
                        options passed in by the bootloader. This is where one
                        would place a framebuffer line or any other options to
                        pass to the new kernel.
  \-\-config CONFIG, \-f CONFIG
                        Specifies the configuration file to load into the
                        kernel before running the configurator.
  \-\-rebuild\-modules, \-r
                        Makes upkern use module\-rebuild to rebuild the modules
                        for this new kernel (requires the module\-rebuild use
                        flag or a separate install of module\-rebuild). If
                        module\-rebuild is not available; this results in a no\-
                        op and no harm is done.
  \-\-time, \-t            Times the actual build of the kernel. Allows one to
                        determine if kernels are building faster based on
                        different configurations, etc.
  \-\-yes, \-y             Passes returns to the make CONFIGURATOR command to
                        accept all defaults if any prompts are given. Allows
                        for a completely automated kernel build in an update.
  \-\-initrd, \-i          Specifies that upkern should build an initramfs to
                        assist the boot process. This option utilizes dracut
                        to build this initramfs.

.SH AUTHOR
Alex Brandt <alunduil@alunduil.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dracut(8)
